---
layout: page
title: "Species Distribution Modeling"
teaser: "A few thoughts on the way forward."
category: articles
tags: [research]
imagefeature:
comments: true
share: true

---

Conservation of biodiversity demands comprehension of evolutionary and ecological patterns and processes that occur over vast spatial and temporal scales.

A central goal of ecology is to understand the factors that control the spatial distribution of species and this has become even more important in the face of climate change. Climate is a primary determinant of plant species distributions and many methods have been developed to predict ranges from records of species occurrence. However, most methods are unable to account for common situations like habitat destruction or nonrandom sampling effort. To improve upon existing methods, we have developed a novel set of spatially explicit Hierarchical Bayesian models. These models can account for habitat destruction and sampling effort and are capable of estimating plant population abundance (Chakraborty et al., 2010) or expected population intensity from presence-only datasets that are common in biology (Chakraborty et al., 2010). Using data collected by our South African collaborators, we applied these models to various species of the protea (Proteaceae) family in the CFR to make predictions, with uncertainty, about the potential species ranges and the impact of habitat destruction on their populations. These results will be useful to overcome sampling limitations and maximize preservation of areas with high biodiversity.

Invasive species are a significant threat to native organisms and natural ecosystems and thus there is a need to understand and predict their expansion across the landscape. This is especially complicated in a heterogeneous landscape under a changing climate. Standard species distribution models are ill-equipped to deal with species that are not at equilibrium or that respond to multi-scale environmental influences (such as land use/land cover and other habitat characteristics). To overcome these limitations, I analyzed land use patterns and meteorological data to contribute to the development of spatially explicit models of the ongoing spread and potential distribution of three woody invasive plants in New England (Ibanez et al., 2009a). We incorporated habitat heterogeneity at three scales simultaneously (regional, landscape, and local) and used information about the species’ native ranges in Asia to inform the predictions. This work revealed that including landscape structure and local habitat characteristics in the models improved their predictive performance over climate-only models. In a related study, we used similar methods to model invasive species abundance and richness across New England to identify potential hotspots where managers should pay close attention to newly arrived invasives (Ib ́nez et al., 2009b). Given that they are not at equilibrium, predicting ranges of invasive species in the near future is difficult to do without an understanding of how they disperse across the landscape. To explore the role of the introduced Sturnus vulgaris (European Starling) in dispersal of the invasive Celastrus orbiculatus (Oriental bittersweet), we developed a novel cellular automata model with a heterogeneous landscape and were able to reproduce the observed range expansion using empirical data of bird activity and species occurrence (Merow et al., in review). The model revealed the importance of S. vulgaris in a heterogeneous landscape mosaic and habitat fragmentation in the spread of C. orbiculatus.

These types of species-specific analyses are critical to understand how individual species of interest respond to variations in climate and landscape characteristics and are a necessary compliment to the ecosystem approach mentioned above.
