---
layout: blog
title: Lab Positions
teaser: "Two positions available"
categories: research
tags: [research]
comments: true
published: true
---

# Postdoc: Ecosystem Response to Global Environmental Change

The University at Buffalo (UB), State University of New York Department of Geography invites applicants for a postdoctoral scholar to join a vibrant international research collaboration to investigate the role of changing climate in altered ecosystem dynamics (disturbance and/or phenology) in the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa.  Recent climate change has led to altered fire frequency and ecosystem recovery (http://intl.pnas.org/content/112/29/9058.abstract), but the mechanisms of these changes are not clear.  The selected scholar will build spatio-temporal statistical models of ecosystem function integrating decades of plant community dynamics, remotely sensed images (especially MODIS and LANDSAT), and historical weather data. For more information about lab activities, see adamwilson.us.  Opportunities for teaching and field work near Cape Town, South Africa are available if desired.

Candidates must have completed their PhD (geography, ecology, statistics, or a related field) within the past 5 years and have a demonstrated record of research from initiation to publication.  Candidates must be fluent in R (preferred) or python programming for spatial analysis.  The ideal candidate will also have experience fitting Hierarchical Bayesian statistical models, analysis of large (>1TB) datasets, working with high performance computing, and knowledge of C++.

To apply (only e-applications are accepted) please go to https://www.ubjobs.buffalo.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=58588 or ubjobs.buffalo.edu and search for posting # 1600011.  Please submit a cover letter (2-page maximum) describing your research interests and why you are a strong candidate for this position, your C.V., one recent first-author publication relevant to this position, and contact information for three professional references.  Applications will be evaluated beginning March 1, 2016. All application materials must be received by this date for full consideration.  If you have any questions or concerns regarding this posting, please contact Adam Wilson, Assistant Professor at adamw@buffalo.edu or 716-645-0502.  The University at Buffalo is an affirmative action, equal opportunity employer (AA/EO).
This position is affiliated with the Geography Department and Program in Evolution, Ecology, and Behavior at SUNY at Buffalo (UB), a large R1 University.  UB has cutting edge computational resources including an 8,000 CPU, 170 Tflop computer cluster and high-end visualization laboratory.  Buffalo (population 250k) is on the shores of Lake Erie about 30 minutes from Niagara Falls and 2 hours from Toronto.  


# PhD Student Assistantship: ecosystem response to global environmental change

Applications are invited for a prospective PhD student to join a vibrant international research collaboration to investigate the role of changing climate in altered ecosystem dynamics (disturbance and/or phenology).  Potential topics include recent climate change, fire frequency,  and ecosystem recovery in the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa (http://intl.pnas.org/content/112/29/9058.abstract) or the role of climate in temperate forest phenology across the northeastern United States.  For more information about lab activities, see adamwilson.us.

The student can apply to either the PhD program in Earth Systems Science from the Geography Department (buffalo.edu/cas/geography.html) or Program in Evolution, Ecology, and Behavior (evolutionecologybehavior.buffalo.edu) at SUNY at Buffalo (buffalo.edu), a large research university. Buffalo (population 250k) is on the shores of Lake Erie about 30 minutes from Niagara Falls and 2 hours from Toronto.  

Apply by January 10th (Geography) or January 15th (EEB) to receive full consideration. You are strongly encouraged to contact Professor Adam M. Wilson (adamw {at} buffalo {dot} edu) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AND BEFORE the deadline to discuss your application and whether the program is a good fit.  If you choose to contact Dr. Wilson, please attach a single PDF with the following materials:
1)	a cover letter (2-page maximum) describing your research interests and why you are a strong candidate for this position
2)	your C.V.
3)	unofficial transcript or list of courses
4)	1 recent first-author publication relevant to this position (if available)
5)	Contact information for three professional references

The selected student will be supported for 9 months on a Teaching Assistantship with the potential for additional funds to support research activities during the summer.  Teaching Assistantships are $13,520 for nine months and include full tuition waivers.  
